This app employs the methods described by Cadotte et al 2013 and used in Thorn et al 2015 and other recent publications to demonstrate how the relationship between novelty and invasiveness is mediated by competition. The goal here is to create an interactive version of this analysis that allows a user to explore how relationships can change when incorporating information on both phylogeny and functional traits. I may attempt to generalize this app so other users can put in their own data and phylogeny and conduct analyses using this interactive platform, but for now that is not a priority.

The app works for nearly all combinations of traits, though a few will return errors as there are too many missing values in the underlying data to calculate a meaningful distance measure. I wish this were not the case, but some species simply could not be measured for things like leaf toughness due to equipment limitations. Furthermore, wood density data were not available for all species in this data set. Generally, errors including `NA/NaN/Inf in x` indicate that this combination of traits cannot be calculated due to missing data. Please report any other errors [here](https://github.com/levisc8/Fun_Phylo_Shiny/issues) and include the settings you had for each menu item in the report.

The app is powered by `Shiny` and depends heavily on a package called `FunPhylo`. The package is not hosted on _CRAN_, but the source code for both are publicly available on GitHub ([package](https://github.com/levisc8/Fun_Phylo_Package), [app](https://github.com/levisc8/Fun_Phylo_Shiny)).

The `Plot Type` dropdown controls the type of plot you will see. `GLM` plots effect size of competition or invasive status vs your selected novelty metric. The explanatory variable is calculated based on the traits you've selected and the phylogenetic scaling parameter (1 = all phylogenetic information, 0 = all functional trait information). `Explanatory power` will generate a figure showing you the explanatory power of the linear models from the `GLM` option as a function of the phylogenetic scaling parameter. `Response Type` option gives you the power to choose between two different forms of the log response ratio. `Significant only` means that only species with significant treatment effects on per-capita growth rates will have non-zero values. `Raw value` ignores significance and displays the calculated effect sizes. Note that there isn't much difference and that showing non-significant results might not actually make the most sense given our bootstrapping methodology for the demographic models. Finally, the `Input Phylogeny` dropdown controls which phylogeny is used for calculating the distance metrics. "Tank" is from [Zanne et al. (2013)](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature12872), and "AllOTB" and "GBOTB" are described in [Smith & Brown (2018)](https://bsapubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ajb2.1019).

Note that the UI changes a bit when the `Plot Type` drop down is switched to `Explanatory Power`, as some of the options are no longer relevant. Please be patient with `Explanatory power` when the scale is set to `Local`. It has a lot of calculations to do and it may take a second or two to load! You can reduce waiting times by reducing the resolution for the phylogenetic scaling parameter. 

Finally, a brief glossary of more abstract trait names. `Growth Form` corresponds to a suite of dummy variables which include woody status, type of plant (See Perez-Harguindeguy 2013), and N fixation. `Dispersal Mechanism` includes information on predominant means of sexual reproduction and whether or not the species is clonal. `First Flowering` is based on the beginning of flowering in Missouri. For further questions, please contact me at <levisc8@gmail.com>. 

Enjoy the app!